The sound of your voice
comes from the movement and
vibration of your vocal cords.
These are 2 folds of mucous membrane
that stretch across your larynx,
which is a tube shaped organ in your neck.
When you breathe in,
your vocal cords are relaxed
and air passes through the larynx
without producing sound
Talking tightens the cords
through the action of muscles
and tendons within the mucous membranes,
which move them closer together
or further apart.
Air is forced between them,
which makes them vibrate,
producing the sound that is your voice.
Irritation, infection, or overuse
can cause the vocal cords
and larynx to become inflamed.
When air passes through them,
the sound is distorted,
so that your speech sounds hoarse
or there may be almost no sound
what we call losing your voice.